---
title: Learning strategies
author: Thinkful
team: grading
time: 10 minutes
timeHours: 0.16666666666666666
uuid: 904a38e4-be91-4b59-93d7-422945d9569a
---

Chances are, you've never done anything like this program before. Maybe you've never tried online learning before, maybe you haven't spent a lot of time learning data science, or maybe you haven't been a student in years.

This is likely a new way of learning for you—but even if it isn't, you'll want to spend time developing learning strategies that work for you. Everyone is different; someone else's tried-and-true strategy may work well for you or not at all. But if you don't have any strategies for your learning, this process will be a lot harder—and it's already hard enough. So make your life easier by taking the time to consider which strategies might work for you.

Read through the suggestions in this checkpoint. Try a few of them out, talk about them with your mentor, and ask your colleagues on Slack what works for them. Once you've found some strategies that resonate with you, think about how you will integrate them into your learning plan.

## Agile learning

Understanding how you learn is as important as mastering any new skill. You'll learn better, faster, and more thoroughly if you use learning strategies that are effective for you. This program is designed not only to help you build technical skills but also to help you develop an agile learning mindset.

Agile learning is rooted in the same set of principles that comprise the agile software development framework:
- **Early, iterative, and frequent delivery:** In this program, you are going to be producing work from the get-go. This helps you get into the habit of delivering. It's okay if things aren't perfect on the first try. That's why iteration is such an important part of the process. If you get into the habit of producing every day, you will improve quickly as you build your muscle memory.
- **Flexibility:** This means welcoming change. As you go through this program, you will learn new things about yourself, your goals will likely shift as they come into focus, and you will constantly learn better ways to do things. Being flexible with your approach will help you to identify the best way for you to learn, and you'll be open to new developments in the field. That's a hugely important skill for your career.
- **Empowered, collaborative teams:** You, your colleagues, your mentor, your academic success manager, and the other team members supporting you will all contribute to your learning process. Everyone plays an important role and will help shape the process.
- **A spirit of continuous improvement:** The field of data science is constantly changing and developing. By transitioning to this career, you are signing yourself up for a lifetime of learning new skills, technologies, and approaches. That's exciting because it means that there will always be something new and interesting to learn. You'll certainly never get bored. It also means that your learning will never be finished. Total mastery doesn't really exist in this field, so embrace the opportunity to learn and grow throughout your career.

This program's learning materials focus on providing you with compelling examples and clear explanations of the critical concepts and practices in professional data science. Each assignment illuminates a few new ideas, building on what you've already learned.

You'll find reading assignments (which usually explain a concept), walk-throughs (which take you through the steps of implementing a particular feature), and small projects (which force you to use a concept you've learned). Remember, reading on its own won't result in mastering the material; you need to put concepts into practice by solving problems and building projects where you aren't given the solutions.

## Time management strategies

To build on what you've learned about time management and learning strategies, check out the video below.

<iframe id="kaltura_player_1587504816" src="https://cdnapisec.kaltura.com/p/2315191/sp/231519100/embedIframeJs/uiconf_id/45331192/partner_id/2315191?iframeembed=true&playerId=kaltura_player_1587504816&entry_id=1_cbs0w1gi" width="100%" height="500" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozAllowFullScreen allow="autoplay *; fullscreen *; encrypted-media *" frameborder="0"></iframe>


## Reading strategies

Online learning takes a lot of discipline. It's important to plan out how you will make time for this work and how you will maintain your momentum over the months and through the ups and downs of your progress. Here are some tips and resources to get you started in managing your time.

- **Schedule your work, but be realistic.** Use a paper or digital calendar to log your planned study sessions. Start by adding in all of your current responsibilities: work, sleep, childcare, and other commitments that aren't flexible. Next, add in the time that you plan to work on your program. Every day, record the time that you actually spent. At the end of the week, add it up. How many hours did you actually work on your program? Where did your planned schedule and your actual schedule align, and where were they different? Using this information, how can you adapt your schedule to make it more realistic? For example, do you find that you are too exhausted to work on your program at the end of the day? Then wake up early and do it first thing!
- **Don't break the chain.** Just because you have something on your calendar doesn't mean that you'll do it. Try using your calendar to mark the days when you did something, especially when you're trying to build a new habit. This method is often attributed to Jerry Seinfeld, and it has been popularized by various people, including author and artist Austin Kleon. Here's how you can use it for your program: on a calendar, mark every day that you work on your program. Consecutive marked days will form a chain; your goal is to keep the chain going. Some apps, like Streaks, can help you do this—but drawing a simple grid of days on a notepad will work too, especially if you keep it visible. This is a great motivator to keep working, so you don't break your streak. How many days in a row can you go?
- **Maintain momentum with the Zeigarnik effect.** Todd Henry, the host of *The Accidental Creative* podcast, advises determining a next action at the end of every work session. This means you always know what you have to do next, which can keep uncertainty from stalling out your progress when you try to get started again. Your dashboard provides you with clear next steps in your program, but you can gain additional momentum by sketching out an idea of how you will work on the next part of your program. In addition to providing clear direction, this advice taps into the power of the *Zeigarnik effect*, which Adam Grant describes in his TED Talk. In short: the mind keeps thinking about unfinished business. Todd Henry's recommendation to make a plan for your next step can keep your mind considering how you'll move forward in your program.
- **Track your efforts with a work progress journal.** Author and computer scientist Cal Newport suggests keeping a work progress journal to stay productive. It's easy and well worth the time. In a notebook, write down the tasks you plan to complete today. At the end of the day, revisit the task list to jot down any notes, mark which tasks you completed, and briefly explain why any incomplete tasks weren't finished. By making you more aware of your progress, this tool can help you celebrate your accomplishments and stay motivated. To paraphrase Greg McKeown, the author of the book *Essentialism*: nothing motivates like progress. This tool can also enable you to diagnose a lack of progress. Because you're recording the reasons why you didn't accomplish certain tasks, the work progress journal can help you figure out what isn't working.

## Reading strategies

This program requires a lot of reading as you learn about new concepts and techniques. Digesting this much reading can be challenging. Active reading strategies can help you stay on pace, retain information, and shift your learning behavior. Successful active reading strategies occur before, during, and after any checkpoint.

- **Before reading:** Examine the text before reading, completing a project, or moving to the next section. Review text and images, draft questions that you're curious about or address what you already know, and define a goal for the reading.
- **During reading:** Pause during reading to think about the content. Visualize concepts, journal, and annotate; consider connections between the text, your project, and the larger tech ecosystem. Turn the material into a question that can be answered, and then answer it.
- **After reading:** As soon as you finish, create a space for reflection by stopping and thinking about what you just read. Try out critical thinking and reflection exercises, write out any questions you still have after the checkpoint, and consider why you were reading the selection.

Here are some more tips for reading effectively and retaining information.

- **Read linearly.** This might sound obvious, but smartphones and social media have changed our reading habits. It might take some time to settle back into reading words and sentences in sequential order (if so, be patient with yourself!), but it will be worth it. In the long run, practicing linear reading will help you spend less time reading than if you're skimming and jumping around. You'll also be more likely to retain the information that you read.
- **Take handwritten notes.** Along with diligent reading, taking notes also aids information retention. Note-taking seems to be most beneficial when done by hand.
- **Explain to someone else.** To test if you understand a concept, see if you can explain it to someone else. Explaining concepts and posing questions to yourself or others requires you to more fully articulate your thoughts, which offers insight into where you're struggling or getting stuck. Explain it to your mentor in your next session, to another student on Slack, to your roommate, or even to your dog. Talking to yourself has many benefits and can help develop your understanding. If you're not in a place where you can comfortably speak aloud, try putting your thoughts into words or pictures on a memo pad or whiteboard. If getting started with this strategy feels awkward, the *Harvard Business Review* article [Talking to Yourself (Out Loud) Can Help You Learn](https://hbr.org/2017/05/talking-to-yourself-out-loud-can-help-you-learn) provides guidance that's easy to put into action.
- **Depth before breadth.** As you work through each assignment, give yourself enough time to carefully read the materials, and let the new concepts sink in. It's better to take twice as long reading deliberately and with full concentration than it is to get through twice as many assignments with shallow comprehension. If your understanding is superficial, your implementation is likely to take longer, and you won't end up saving any time in the long run.
- **Resist rabbit holes.** When you are working through your curriculum, you will run into concepts that you want to learn more about or that you need external resources to fully understand. That's great! Curiosity and a desire to understand what you are learning are great qualities. However, it's easy to get sucked into a black hole of articles or videos that lead you off on a tangent. When setting off on this kind of research, try using the *Pomodoro technique*. It's a tried-and-true productivity tactic: set a timer and work without interruption until the timer rings. This can help you maintain focus and let you know when you've spent enough time on something. This technique is also helpful when you are working on an issue and need to set a limit for yourself so that you realize when it's time to ask for help. Just be sure to pick an amount of time that's reasonable; don't set your smartphone timer for four hours!

## Personal care

Effective learning can only happen when you take care of yourself. You'll need to make sure to prioritize your physical and emotional health in this program. It's common to go through a roller coaster of feelings as you learn these skills. Some days, you'll feel like a genius when you produce something that you are really proud of or solve a tricky issue all by yourself. Other days, you'll feel like a total failure when you spend hours but can't figure out why something isn't working. This is all normal, but knowing that doesn't make it any easier when you are in the middle of it. That's why it's so important to take care of yourself and to know what to do and where to turn when you are feeling overwhelmed or discouraged.

- **Stay healthy in body and mind.** Numerous studies have shown how being well-rested directly affects your ability to focus (and thus, study). Have you ever considered that the amount of sleep you get during your studies could be beneficial? A study by the [Division of Sleep Medicine](https://sleep.med.harvard.edu/) at Harvard Medical School provides data on just that: "Being sleep-deprived reduces one's ability to learn … evidence suggests that adequate sleep each day is very important for learning and memory." More sleep = better memory retention!
- **Involve your family and friends.** As you make a plan for incorporating your coursework into your life, share this calendar with your family and friends. This will help them be aware of what you have committed yourself to. During your time in this program, you are probably going to have to miss dinners with friends, skip parties, and generally scale back your social life. Make sure that your friends and family know that you are taking on this challenge and will be less available, so they aren't disappointed when you aren't around in the same way. They can also become a great source of support for you; they can cheer you on when you need a boost getting through the tough parts of your program, and they can celebrate your accomplishments with you.
- **Build a community.** Learning online can feel lonely at times. Remember that you're not alone—you are part of a community with thousands of members: current students, alumni, mentors, and others who know what you are going through as a student. Take time to get to know other people in this community on Slack or at one of Thinkful's local events; this will help you to build a group of friends, advisors, and confidants that can support you, give you feedback, and keep you motivated. You'll learn more tips on how to get the most out of Slack later in this module.
- **Get advice and feedback.** Know someone who excels at picking up new information and skills? Have a friend who is experienced with data science? See a fellow student in Slack who produces amazing work? Ask them what works for them or see if they can help you talk through the difficulties you're having. Be willing to listen without judgment. As Tal Ben-Shahar writes in his book *Choose The Life You Want*, "The price we pay for being defensive is extremely high, because dogmatically rejecting criticism is putting up a wall between us and potentially useful ideas, as well as between us and other people." Don't miss out on the help that might be close at hand by being afraid to be vulnerable!

## Assignment

Think about yourself as a learner. Which of these learning strategies do you think will be most effective for you? Describe which ones you plan to try and why.

Write and submit your answer in the box below.
