---
title: Your support team
author: Thinkful
team: grading
time: 20 minutes
uuid: a09e9e2a-e39a-465f-b4f8-229de2246452
timeHours: 0.3333333333333333
---

## Learning objective

By the end of this checkpoint, you should be able to describe the members of
your Thinkful support team.

## Overview

At Thinkful, there are six groups of people who are here to support you
throughout your program—instructors, teaching assistants, academic success
managers, mentors, the careers team, and the student finance team. In this
checkpoint, you’ll learn how each of these groups can support you.

Please watch this brief introduction to your support team and the resources they can provide for you during your Thinkful journey. 

<iframe id="kaltura_player_1608663926" src="https://cdnapisec.kaltura.com/p/2315191/sp/231519100/embedIframeJs/uiconf_id/45331192/partner_id/2315191?iframeembed=true&playerId=kaltura_player_1608663926&entry_id=1_xlvcng9t" width="900" height="506" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozAllowFullScreen allow="autoplay *; fullscreen *; encrypted-media *" frameborder="0"></iframe>

## Your instructor team

Your *instructor* is here to teach—and ensure that you master—the curriculum.
They will lead daily workshops and practice activities. Depending on your
program, you can expect to see more than one instructor who will support your
learning.

**Info at a glance**

-   Contact hours: Weekdays 10 AM to 2 PM US Eastern Time (ET)

-   Come to the instructor team for the following:

    -   Clarification on classroom and pairing concepts

    -   Any questions that you have on your checkpoints and projects

## Your teaching assistant (TA)

Your *teaching assistant* (TA) is here to help you with your assignments and
practice drills. They are technical coaches well versed in your program’s
curriculum and are happy to assist you when you need it.

**Info at a glance**

-   Contact hours: Weekdays 2 PM to 5:30 PM ET

-   Come to your TA for the following:

    -   Technical help understanding concepts

    -   Any questions that you have on your checkpoints and projects

## Your academic success manager

Your *academic success manager* (ASM) is here to help you with the nontechnical
aspects of your program. This includes helping you create a plan that ensures
that you graduate on time, keeping you accountable to that plan, providing
advice about time or stress management, recommending resources to help you meet
your learning and career goals, and answering any questions or concerns that you
have about your program.

The two of you will conduct regular check-ins throughout your program to review
your progress and make sure that you're on track.

You can connect with your academic success manager by going to **Your Team** at
the top of your dashboard and hovering over your academic success manager's
name. You'll then see links to their email address, Slack account, and booking
platform, and you can select whichever option you prefer.

**Info at a glance**

-   Contact hours: Weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM, depending on your ASM’s time zone

-   Come to your ASM for the following:

    -   Any and all administrative questions

        -   Where can I find …?

        -   Who should I talk to about …?

    -   Pacing concerns

        -   Daily and weekly

    -   Time management strategies

        -   Structuring time outside of classroom hours

## Your mentor

Your *mentor* is an industry professional who's committed to your academic and
professional success. Throughout your program, you will meet with your mentor
during *mentor sessions*. During these sessions, your mentor can help you with,
review, and provide feedback on your coursework, expound on topics in your
program, and share insider tips about getting a job and working in your new
industry. The length of your mentor sessions is specific to each program, so
make sure to review your Course Catalog before being paired with your mentor.

Access to a professional mentor is invaluable and rare, so you should make the
most of your sessions by doing the following:

-   Attending all your sessions

-   Sharing your learning and career goals with your mentor

-   Coming to each session prepared with a list of topics that you want to cover

-   Being professional and making a good impression

To be paired with a mentor, you first need to set your availability for mentor
sessions. You can do this by logging into your profile and going to
[Settings](https://settings.thinkful.com/). Under [Availability](https://settings.thinkful.com/availability), 
highlight every hour that you're available
to meet with a mentor (outside of workshop and paired work).

Keep in mind that the more hours you've marked as available, the easier and
faster it will be to pair you with a mentor. You can adjust your hours at any
time. Once you do this, you'll be matched with a Thinkful mentor. Once you are
paired with your mentor, you can see them under **Your Team**. If, for any
reason, your relationship with your mentor isn't working out, tell your academic
success manager so that they can find a solution.

**Info at a glance**

-   Contact hours: Weekly mentorship meetings

    -   Come to your mentor with the following:

        -   A detailed agenda of what you’d like to work on or discuss

        -   General questions about your program and projects

        -   Insight into the industry

## The careers team

The Thinkful *careers team* will help you with everything related to your job
search—from the time that you complete your first Careers assessment (early in
your program) until the moment that you accept a job offer. They will review and
help you polish your resume, LinkedIn profile, and cover letter. They will share
tips about networking, interviewing, and strategizing your job search. And they
will provide referrals (when applicable) and offer 1-on-1 and group coaching.

**Info at a glance**

-   Contact hours: Weekdays 9 AM to 5 PM ET on the \#careers in the Thinkful
    Slack

-   Come to the careers team with the following:

    -   Questions about Careers modules and assignments

    -   Questions about your job search

    -   Questions about interviews

## Student finance team

Finally, the *student finance team* is here to help you with specific questions
regarding your financing and payment plans. If you have any questions or
concerns regarding financing, you will be able to reach this team at
<payments@thinkful.com>.

