---
title: Student expectations
author: Thinkful
team: grading
time: 20 minutes
uuid: bcd3369d-e289-41be-b738-dc3bdd320311
timeHours: 0.3333333333333333
---

## Learning objective

By the end of this checkpoint, you should be able to summarize Thinkful's Good
Academic Standing policy, Tuition Refund Guarantee, and Code of Conduct.

## Overview

As a Thinkful student, there are several policies that you're expected to
uphold. While you can review all of these policies in the [Course
Catalog](https://www.thinkful.com/course-catalog), this checkpoint highlights
three that are important to be aware of up front—what constitutes good academic
standing, the Tuition Refund Guarantee, and Thinkful's Code of Conduct.

## Good Academic Standing

### Before program start

Five days before an immersion program starts, the daily schedule for your first
week and these checkpoints will be added to your dashboard.

If you are a student with an ISA or a living stipend (or both), your ISA Living
Stipend Agreement and Addendum is sent for review and signature at this time as
well. As a student with an ISA or a living stipend, you will also have a
pre-start small group session with your ASM scheduled for the week prior to the
start of your class. Attendance at this pre-start session is mandatory.

Finally, check to see if your program requires any specific software licenses or
downloads. If so, you will need to download the software or purchase a license
to use the product before your first day. You will also need a computer with
high-speed internet access and video capability, including a webcam, a
microphone, and speakers.

Computers must be available prior to the first day of class. Thinkful programs
cannot be completed on a tablet or smartphone. You must have a reliable internet
connection fast enough to stream video sessions clearly for upwards of eight
hours a day, and you should have a quiet workspace free from distractions and
background noise. See the Course Catalog for additional minimum system
requirements.

### Attendance

Your program is a significant time commitment, and you are expected to do
everything possible to be in the sessions. Workshops start promptly at 10AM ET
during the weekdays, and *you are not allowed to miss any days in your first
week*.

An absence is defined as the following:

-   Arriving 10 minutes or more late to any portion of your course

-   Not responding within 20 minutes to a Slack ping during classroom hours

-   Missing the morning or afternoon workshop or the paired or group work session

However, life is unpredictable. If you need time away from the course for any
reason after the first week, please submit an [absence notification
form](https://thinkful.typeform.com/to/CmatYh) and notify your instructor as
soon as possible. The number of absences you are allowed depends on your
specific program. You should also be prepared to send a quick catch-up plan to
your academic success manager by the following day.

Also, you will not have class if your program falls on one of the following
holidays:

-   New Year's Eve and New Year's Day

-   Martin Luther King Day

-   Memorial Day

-   Fourth of July

-   Labor Day

-   Thanksgiving and the day after Thanksgiving

-   Winter break (typically over the week of Christmas)

If you exceed your allowed number of absences, as defined by your program, you
will not remain eligible for graduation or the tuition guarantee.

### Active participation

In order to succeed in your Thinkful program as an immersion student, you need
to be an active participant in your workshop sessions, paired or group work time, 
and group projects (if applicable). What does active participation look like? Read
below and think about what this means for you and your program.

#### Workshops

As a reminder, workshops are your live class sessions led by a Thinkful
instructor. You are covering checkpoint material that you read the night before
in greater depth. To be active in your workshop sessions, you can do the
following:

-   Participate in class discussions.

-   Be respectful of other people talking—but don't be afraid to share your
    ideas! Everyone is here to learn.

-   Actively engage in break-out rooms or in-class problem sets.

#### Group work sessions

Group work sessions take place after your morning workshop each day. What can 
you do during a group work session?

-   Take a quick break, if needed.

-   Work with your partner(s) on an assignment, if applicable.

-   Complete and finish up any work assigned that day.

-   Receive assistance from your cohort-specific TAs. Even though instructors
    will still be online, your TAs are the main technical support person during
    your afternoon group work session.

-   Meet with your academic success manager.

-   Schedule mock interviews.

-   Work on any outstanding checkpoints, including your Careers checkpoints.

-   Prepare for the following day's assignment.

What can't you do during a group work session?

-   Sign off and finish class early.

### Monitoring progress

Keeping in good academic standing also means actively monitoring your progress
throughout your program.

What is “good standing”?

-   No more than one week behind on any checkpoint

-   Active participation in all parts of your program (see above)

-   Following the absence policy of your specific program (see the [Course Catalog](https://www.thinkful.com/course-catalog))

-   Adhering to the Code of Conduct (see below)

What happens if you’re not in good standing?

-   You’ll meet with your ASM to discuss your goals and plans to get back on
    track.

-   You’ll most likely be put on a Structured Program Agreement (SPA).

-   If you are a student with an ISA or a living stipend, your stipend
    disbursement will be at risk if you are not in good academic standing.

Only one SPA is allowed during your entire program.

If you want to remain in good standing in your program, it's helpful to set
small daily goals for yourself. These are some example goals:

-   Complete all work covered during instructional hours.

-   Prepare for the next day.

-   Follow your weekly syllabus.

-   Look ahead to plan, knowing what capstones and projects are coming up next
    and how to fit the extra time into your schedule.

## Tuition Refund Guarantee

Thinkful programs are designed to prepare you for your next job. The Thinkful
team is confident that if you put in the required effort, you will be able to
get a job within six months of graduating. The team is so confident, in fact,
that Thinkful will refund 100% of your tuition if you meet the eligibility
requirements outlined in the Thinkful [Tuition Refund
Guarantee](https://tf-assets-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/shoebill/PDFs/thinkful-job-guarantee.pdf).
Students with an ISA or a living stipend are not eligible for the Tuition Refund
Guarantee.

In addition to meeting the pre-enrollment qualifications for eligibility, you
must also do these things to remain eligible for the Tuition Refund Guarantee:

-   Graduate from your program within the expected duration of the program (as
    posted in Thinkful's [Course
    Catalog](https://www.thinkful.com/course-catalog)).

-   Complete all of your program requirements, including the Careers
    checkpoints.

-   After graduating, conduct your job search and report on it according to the
    guidelines in your Thinkful Refund Guarantee.

-   Adhere to Thinkful's Code of Conduct (more on that below).

## Code of Conduct 

Finally, all students are expected to abide by Thinkful's Code of Conduct. It is
as follows:

-   Prioritize your classes and mentor sessions.

    -   Arrive at your mentor sessions on time, come prepared with questions and
        topics to discuss with your mentor, and stay for the full duration of
        the mentor session.

    -   If you need to arrive late, leave early, or are unable to attend a
        mentor session, provide your mentor with 24 hours of advance notice.

-   Participate in all aspects of your Thinkful program—readings, workshops,
    activities, and assignments.

-   Be receptive to feedback and constructive criticism.

-   Acknowledge that Thinkful's educational materials—provided physically or
    electronically—are for your personal use only. Don't reproduce, save, or
    copy any educational materials provided for any use other than your personal
    study. Don't make public (for example, by posting online) any such study
    workshops, materials, or code provided by Thinkful.

-   Complete all coursework yourself; don't allow outside parties to use your
    student dashboard or submit work on your behalf.

-   Ask for help when you need it.

-   Conduct yourself professionally while at Thinkful or in the community (at
    events, at other schools, with employers, with recruiters, and so on).

-   Be considerate of your classmates and Thinkful staff and mentors; don't
    express sexism, racism, homophobia, ageism, ableism, or any other behavior
    deemed inappropriate for a healthy learning environment.

Additionally, the following are not permitted and will result in disciplinary
action, including the loss of your Tuition Refund Guarantee, the requirement of
repeating your work, or dismissal from your program:

-   Uncooperative or disrespectful behavior to your fellow classmates,
    colleagues, instructors, community members, or staff

-   Disruptive activity that causes the obstruction of teaching, learning, or
    administration of Thinkful programs

-   Acts of falsity, including (but not limited to) cheating, plagiarism,
    forgery, submitting work that is not your own, or other acts of academic
    dishonesty
    
Please review the following video for more details on the Code of Conduct.     
    
<iframe id="kaltura_player_1608664596" src="https://cdnapisec.kaltura.com/p/2315191/sp/231519100/embedIframeJs/uiconf_id/45331192/partner_id/2315191?iframeembed=true&playerId=kaltura_player_1608664596&entry_id=1_7bhna2pl" width="900" height="506" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozAllowFullScreen allow="autoplay *; fullscreen *; encrypted-media *" frameborder="0"></iframe>
 
