---
title: Technical coaching
author: Thinkful
team: grading
time: 10 minutes
timeHours: 0.16666666666666666
uuid: 1e229381-1621-442a-b215-18ec996c9b4d
---

As you work through the curriculum, you will inevitably have moments where you are stuck and don't know what to do next. Don't panic! Getting stuck is a very important part of the learning process. To help you get unstuck and back into the groove, we have a team of experienced technical coaches to answer your questions and point you in the right direction.

Technical coaches won't do your work for you, and they won't always give you direct answers to your questions. Coaches will help guide you to figure out the solution yourself. You might not have technical coaches or personal mentors in a real job, so it's important that you build your skills related to troubleshooting, problem-solving, understanding errors, and researching solutions while you're in the program. Figuring out how to get yourself unstuck is one of the most important skills that a data scientist can have, so practice it often!

Remember, technical coaches are here to help you with your coursework. They can't help you with assignments for job interviews or anything outside of the curriculum.

The technical coaching team aims to respond within 10 minutes to any questions that are posted in the chat during regularly scheduled support hours. If you post a question during regularly scheduled support hours, please stick around to monitor the chat and work with a coach. If you post a question during off-hours, check back during the next staffed hour that works for you. If you don't respond to a post within 4 hours, it will be automatically closed. So make sure you keep an eye on the chat! You can get help from a technical coach by opening the chat in the lower-right corner of the screen when you're viewing the curriculum. Technical coaches will know which checkpoint you opened the chat on, so be sure to always begin your chat from the checkpoint that you need help with.

Get help faster and more effectively by following these steps:
- **Take a break.** When you get stuck, take a step back and try to articulate the problem to yourself. A change of setting can often help jog your thinking. Take a shower, go for a walk, or make yourself a snack. You'll be amazed at how much just getting up for a stretch break can help you to see things in a different way.
- **Google is your friend.** After you've taken a short break, come back and try to solve the problem from a few different angles. If you aren't able to figure out the issue, google your description of the problem. There's a good chance that other people have had similar difficulties, and you may find an answer online. Google and Stack Overflow are your friends, and you will be using them for [the rest of your career](https://codeahoy.com/2016/04/30/do-experienced-programmers-use-google-frequently/)—so the sooner you get accustomed to navigating these tools, the better. While figuring out how to phrase your problem can be challenging when you're a beginner, it's great practice for working on your technical communication skills. Phrase your issue in terms of what is happening and what you expect should happen.
- **Apply the 30-minute rule.** Learning to use Google, Stack Overflow, and other resources to try to solve your issue are important skills, but it's easy to get lost in a rabbit hole that leaves you even more confused. So it's essential to limit how long you spend researching the potential causes and solutions for your problem. Set a timer for 30 minutes; once that timer goes off, change your approach.
- **Check the Slack channels.** Technical coaches will often answer common questions about challenges students are facing. If you take a few minutes to get connected with the right channels, you may see answers to some of your own questions, or learn about how to avoid pitfalls that other students have experienced.
- **Practice asking effective questions.**  Learning to ask clear and specific questions is a crucial skill for your future career. Phrase your question in a way that is easy to understand. This makes it easier for someone to provide you with the help that you need. To get help faster and reduce the need for follow-up questions, explain what you've tried so far, describe what exactly is giving you trouble, and explain what you think should be happening. Also, avoid posting "I have a question." Just spit it out already! For more tips to help you construct good questions, check out these resources: [Bloc's Learning by Writing](https://www.bloc.io/resources/learning-by-writing), [Asking Slack Questions](https://github.com/juliusdelta/slackquestions/blob/master/slackquestions.md), [Stack Overflow's How to Ask a Good Question](https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask), and [How to be Great at Asking Coding Questions](https://medium.com/@gordon_zhu/how-to-be-great-at-asking-questions-e37be04d0603).
- **Format code clearly.** If you refer to code in a message, make sure to format it as code. To do this, use backticks (also known as backquotes) around the text, which `make it look like this`. Include a link to your GitHub commit or gist, or format the issue as a code snippet.

